Now, in the previous lecture
we got started with those secrets
and we added two secrets as repository secrets.
Now, you might have seen
that there also are environment secrets,
and you shouldn't see this
if you are on a private repository in the free plan
because environment secrets require
the environment's feature which is only available
in public repositories under the free plan
or private repositories if you're paying for GitHub.
But what are these environments in the first place?
GitHub offers this environments feature
for your actions workflows.
And the idea behind these GitHub environments
is that you attach them to repositories
and workflow jobs can then reference these environments.
And if a job targets such an environment you can,
for example, provide extra configuration to that job.
To be precise, extra secrets that are only available
in a certain environment.
You can also add special protect rules to, for example,
make sure that no matter what the job
and the workflow defines only pushes to certain branches
can lead to a certain job being executed.
But let's take a look at that in action.
Here at the moment on this demo repository,
I have no environments yet
and you can add environments under Settings, Environments.
Now, the idea is that you could, for example,
set up a testing and a staging and a production environment
and maybe all environments provide the same secrets.
The secrets needed here in this workflow file,
these secrets, maybe you provide the same secret names
in all environments but you might have different values.
And that of course, wouldn't be unreasonable to assume.
Because let's say that you are connecting
to a testing database in the test job,
but you wanna connect to a different database
to the staging database in your staging job, for example.
So the same workflow might have different jobs
that should connect to different databases
with different credentials.
Therefore, just having a general MongoDB username
and password secret might not do the trick because you need
different user names and different passwords
depending on which job is currently executing.
And at the moment, we just have general
repository wide secrets which are always the same.
So if you wanted different secret values for different jobs,
we would need to add more secrets here
and give them different names.
With environments you can work around that.
We can create a new environment, for example, testing.
And now in that environment we can add
our environment-specific secrets.
So for example, here, I could again add MongoDB username.
Make sure to not introduce a typo.
And also add another secret, my MongoDB password.
And here I'll grab that password
from my database configuration here.
I will actually auto-generate a new password and use that
and update my user with that new password
and use that value here.
And now in that environment, we're using these secrets.
Now, of course, the question is how that environment
can be used.
And for that, back here in your workflow definition file,
you reference an environment inside of your jobs.
So inside of a specific job,
you can add the environment key.
Not env, that's used for defining environment variables,
but instead environment written like this.
And then the name of the environment
that should be used for this job.
So now the test job uses the testing environment
which is that environment I just created here.
That's the testing environment.
That's the one I just created.
And therefore, this job,
this job here uses this environment.
And therefore, whenever this job accesses my secrets here,
it will be using the secrets that are stored
for this environment and not the general repository
wide secrets which we stored before.
I could indeed delete these repository wide secrets
and the job would still work
because it's using these environment-specific secrets now.
And, of course, you can add multiple environments
and use different environments in different jobs.
Now, adding secrets to environments is one thing.
You can do more with environments.
For example, you can require special reviewers
to make sure that whenever a workflow executes,
a reviewer has to approve that workflow
before it actually starts running.
You could also add a wait timer so that every job
pauses for 15 minutes before it actually starts.
And you can also add some branch protection.
And for example, make sure that a job
that uses this environment will only be executed
if it was triggered based on a branch you selected.
For example, here I could add a deployment branch rule
and say that only if the main branch was part of the event
that triggered the workflow execution,
only if that branch was part of the event,
jobs that referenced the testing environment should execute.
So if I would push to a different branch, to the dev branch,
and that would trigger the workflow execution,
any jobs referencing the testing environment
would not be executed.
And in general, this workflow can be triggered
if I push to the dev branch.
But thanks to this rule, this test job would not execute.
And I will save that rule,
so I will add this rule and keep this change
so that I can also show this to you in action.
So with that, I finish my environment configuration.
I added that rule and my secrets.
I updated the workflow file by adding this environment
to the test job.
And therefore, now if I create a new commit,
add an environment, and I push this,
you will see that here where I'm pushing to the main branch
this will all execute successfully
because it's now using these secrets from that environment
and it's passing this protection rule.
But if I later try the same by pushing to the dev branch,
you will see that it will fail.
But first of all,
let's wait for this execution to finish here.
Here we go.
So the secrets were obviously picked up successfully,
otherwise this wouldn't have finished successfully.
And if I now go back and check out a new branch
which I named dev and I now push this dev branch
to my remote repository, you will see that the workflow
also will be triggered because I have this trigger
added to my workflow configuration file.
But nonetheless, you see that it actually failed
because this first job, this test job wasn't executed
because the branch dev is not allowed to deploy
to the testing environment
due to this protection rule that I added.